My question is about how to understand everything that is being enlightened.
Everything that you like to know.
So, I think last week, maybe you said that, for example, baricana is the form of skandhas,
and then also I've heard that the five gandhas are the five wisdom.
So what do we mean to, are somehow the five skandhas also the five wisdom?
Like, is there, is baricana a pervasive form, the wisdom aspect of form?
Or is baricana some, like what is it, how exactly are we supposed to apply the notion to see
everything as a form?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I understand, I understand.
The nature, the nature of all this is known as great emptiness, or mahashaneda.
You're asking the mahashaneda? All is emptiness, emptiness.
Emptiness, again, that I'm sure you all understand, it didn't mean blank status.
Emptiness is infinite, openness status.
That openness status, according to teaching, is known as dharmadhatu, dharmadhatu wisdom, in the
wisdom levels.
That emptiness is also known as in the dharmadhatu wisdom,
and that emptiness is also, from that emptiness, arising every displace, arises.
So where the old display of the forms, where it coming from? From dharmadhatu wisdom.
So the everything, the old forms are the emanation or manifestation or display of the dharmadhatu
wisdom.
So dharmadhatu wisdom is the foundation of the, in a way, wisdom, or wisdom and forms.
And then, when it came to the form level, like forms, or including our body,
even though it made us form, we call form, but nature is empty.
Nature is empty, so that means, nature is the emptiness of the wisdom, wisdom.
And from that, all these five wisdom, where they come from? Five wisdom, for example.
Wisdom of the mero-like wisdom.
Where they come from? From dharmadhatu wisdom.
So, dharmadhatu wisdom is what? It's empty. Mero-like wisdom is also empty, empty.
There's no really difference of the nature. It's the same emptiness.
Why it's called mero-like wisdom? Mero. There's a matter of, mero, it didn't mean it's mero.
But it looks like mero.
What is mero does what? In a common conceptual or informal world.
Because it's reflecting all the images to the mero.
Similarly, all this emanation of the dharmadhatu,
dharmadhatu reflect to the, to our intelligence wisdom.
It looks like that's what to give clear analysis to us.
The Greek teacher would use terminology, other example, as mero.
Mero. I mean, just for example, I see, you see.
Oh, I see. I hear. I think. I see all these things.
But where inside? Where? Where that is?
It just reflect me. And when you see reflect me on the mero,
common, where those forms are in the mero.
Again, it's the same, almost the same. It may be not exact.
There's nothing really to find. It's even though it's reflect.
That is a reason. It's called mero-like wisdom.
Mero-like wisdom, that is what is, and that is,
all the forms are natural. It's empty. That reason,
then mero-like wisdom appeared in the form of, in the form,
poem is about a major surface. Major surface.
In the form levels. Or, or maybe I shouldn't say poem.
And then is the Buddha mero-chanas.
Oh, maybe I'll mix it up a little bit. Sorry. And that,
that Buddha mero, that, that dharma-dhatu in a,
in a, when it's reflected as like poem,
in a five-hour regard, and that is the, the
dharma-dhatu version of, is poems. Poem, natures.
And then mero-like wisdom. What that is?
Consciousness. I aggregate our consciousness.
And the next one is what? The feeling, no?
Poem, consciousness, every word will go with that.
And feeling.
Yeah, feeling, I think. Feeling aggregates. Feeling aggregates.
And the feeling aggregate is, no.
Zo, solva, ayaya solva. That's what is feeling. Feeling aggregates.
Feeling aggregate is, is the wisdom level. Again, our way that feeling of,
wisdom level, what that feeling aggregate is.
Whether it is, is equanimity versus nothing.
Equanimity versus nothing. In equanimity versus nothing, now the feelings came.
Feeling is, is what that feeling aggregate
is what is the equanimity versus nothing. Equanimity versus nothing.
Why is named as equanimity? Now, all these feelings,
feelings, there is good feeling, bad feeling, and neutral feeling.
And this, I mean, a whole variety of the feelings.
And all togadhi in a great study of Buddha,
teaching divided for the gross level, eating, I think, feelings.
Related with eating, different senses, that eating.
So all that, that. But even though it is an appearance like that,
where we need to come to, who will see that? Who will see yada?
It's all blended in the mind. Mind all is blinded on our
blended in, in our, in marrow-like questions.
All is blended in. And there is no difference of the good feeling,
bad feeling, neutral feeling. There's nothing. It's all econimity.
All is equal in the mental states. It's completely equal.
And that feeling aggregate is then known as,
as renas, some of us. Because the feeling what,
every kind of luxury items in the world, every thing, luxury thing,
that is known as luxuries. If you have good feeling, good kind of things,
like the more good feeling, all these luxuries, for that reason,
is called the dasam, the bad, richness brother of the
brother, richness brother. And the next one is then
dead what? But now it's what? Feeling as though it's all about the she.
The she. The she. The she is the she. The she is I think perceptions.
Perceptions. Perception was perception and
perception and conceptions. So now perception is,
what are perceptions? Perception is in the, in the Tibetan is called,
or in the Buddha's city is called, in the Tibetan translated as
the she. The she is ideal. The she is
believed. The she is nominated by mind. You nominate it, you vote under that.
Even though there's nothing really existing, and such as title, names,
and rules, and regulations, and traditions,
all this category is really kind of roughly is in the
the she, in the perceptions, perceptions, perceptions. This
perception is so important in the samsara. It's
really so important. So many people do things
because of their perceptions or their beliefs.
Even though there's nothing really existing externally that's
so intangible, it's just we all do things, so many things.
All this violence, believing this, believing that,
all good things, bad, whatever good is because
is perceptions. Reality perception is again, same thing. There's no extra
independent existing. It's mind. Mind. There's nothing else. That
perception is, in a wisdom level, is known as
discrimination, awareness, wisdom, or distinctively understanding clearly
that wisdom. So that means kind of clearly distinct,
all this good, that's the bad, this is man, that's the woman, this is the bad,
and this is brahma, this is the chat, there are, I mean all this, this is the
CEO, C-E-O, C-O-C-E-O, and is not, she is not C-E-O, I mean
all this, we make labels that reality is the same. I just, people, that's nothing.
But he makes that and follow that and he walks, walks, that's it. And that is known
as like
perceptions. And this perception is the wisdom level,
is discrimination, awareness, wisdom. And again, that discrimination,
awareness, means, distinctively understanding,
distinctively understanding clearly a way
of death, that everything clearly as it is,
a way of death, and nature is same as emptiness,
as down to death. There's nothing again existing,
existing. And with that apparent form, then is it, on a Buddha form, that is the
Buddha Amitabh, I think, Buddha Amitabh. So this is called
Buddha Amitabh, Amitabh. Then the consumption, consumption is
all the thought and emotions generally, and those are like 52 or
one of the different emotions, thoughts, those are mental evenness, all those.
And then it's mind, mind. And that is then, and that is then,
in the wisdom level, all accomplishing wisdom.
Because all those mental evenness are well
targeted and highlighted, and what things you like to fulfill, whether you
like, or do not like to do, all that is performed, the judge, and activated
by that consumption, by mind, symbol, itself.
And that, that what it does, it's fulfilling whatever that is, is
fulfilling, fulfilling action, fulfilling activity.
When that, that, that, that in the wisdom level, in all
accomplishing wisdom. So it's the accomplishing,
according to your capabilities, according to that situation,
it's a complicated, bigger, or somewhat whatever layer it is,
that they're complicated. When that Buddha, the Buddha, when their
effort, that form of Buddha, then he is known as
Buddha Amoga Siddhas. So that's why his
reality level is all universal disability.
It comes from this, even though there's already this and that thing,
but the reality level, its nature is the same,
but for that reason, then it's called all enlightened states.
Okay, thank you.